His youngest child was a little girl who came for a
time to live with my father's family. When she was
about 13 and my dad was about 9, she came and she
tells the story of the time that the
great-grandmother had been left at home with her
as the others went to the cotton fields to pick
cotton that she was left at home while she studied
because she was in school to look after. And not
being used to doing this, she accidentally let her
get away. She was sitting at the table studying
when she noticed the grandmother had gotten a cup
of coffee, and the next thing she knew, She had run
out the front door and the front yard gate and down
the road and she couldn't but the time she got out of
the house she was running out into a wooded area and
she lost her in the thick thick wooded part and
couldn't find her and she became so upset that she
ran to the cotton fields and got the rest of the
family and they all came and combed the area all
afternoon and that night until sometime at the
night, and couldn't find the grandmother
anywhere. And early the next morning, the nearest
neighbor, about a half a mile or three-quarters of
a mile up the road, was leaving to go to the cotton
gin with a wagon load of cotton. He had the cotton
sheet already tied down on it, and early the next
morning about daylight, he started out to the
cotton gin. And if you've ever been to a cotton gin,
the wagons drive up beside a ramp, and there is a
sort of a vacuum cleaner suction type, funnel,
which comes down over the cotton in the wagon and
sucks it up into the gin. And as the men took off the
cotton sheet that morning, there was Grandmother
Kathy lying up in the middle of the bale of cotton,
all soft as she'd spent the night and had kept them
warm. Of course, I suppose it was in August, so it
was hot anyway, but, uh, They were all so
astonished to find her in the neighborhood of my
home that day.
My great-grandmother was quite a character, I
understand. She had lived on a plantation before
the Civil War in Alabama and had had several
slaves. And after she became senile and lost
complete touch with reality, My daddy, as a little
boy, would just listen to her and the things she'd
say, and she'd stand at the window and give
directions to her slaves. Give everybody
directions for the day. And there was one named
Caroline, which I suppose was Caroline, and one
named Ike, and I don't remember other names, but my
dad was so fascinated with how she thought and her
reactions of what she would do, but of course all of
this went with the Civil War, and I don't feel that
that had an effect on her becoming senile. It was
just that that was her way of life, and she still
lived in that way in her thinking when she became
older.
Okay. After you moved to this area and after you got
older, do you remember if there were any political
bosses in this area? Or who controlled the use of
the land? Who said, this man can have this area and
this man can have this area? Was there any sort of
time of control? Now, I don't recall, or I was
not... I didn't realize if there was any sort of
control in this area. I can remember as a child,
people talking about down in the southern part of
the state, there were a lot of problems then i
believe there was a man named parr that had quite a
political
bill i'm not sure of the word but an empire a
political empire in that part of the country and he
really did control this is the only person in this
area anywhere near that I can recall. I believe his
name was Parr. I think it was Duval County. I see.
What was the size of Bryan College Station when you
first remember it? I came to Bryan College Station
in 1951,
and it was much smaller then. I suppose the total
population
would have been 25,000, maybe. I think Brown was
about 18,000. And College Station, about 6,000 to
8,000. Were they connected?
There was a lot of vacant space in between. I can
remember when there were no supermarkets. on the
highway at all, on Highway 6. And when the first
sort of supermarket was built, it was called
Miller's, I believe, and it was where, it's right
near Sherwin-Williams store there on the corner.
And this was sitting out on the highway out there
all by itself. There was nothing on there. And I can
remember when the first nice motel was built.
There was some little, small tourist port type,
old-fashioned ports, two or three on the highway.
But the Sands Motel was the largest and the biggest
and the finest. It was the very first. But there was
a lot of just... undeveloped area between Bryan
and College Station. Now at one time, back when the
college was just sitting out here by itself, there
was an old trolley which ran between the campus and
Bryan, an old trolley line. Who do you think were
the most influential families of the area back
then? Well now, some of the first families to come
here i'm not sure if they were the most influential
but they were real interested in developing the
area my husband's family came in 1921 and at that
time there were no houses in this off except in
brian there were no houses around the college they
had campus housing had old college houses that
were in rows on the campus and all the faculty and
administration lived in the campus housing and my
husband's father and mother built the first house
here on this lot that was ever built off the campus i
think in 1922 and this was just a trail uh through
this little wooded area down here and The little
park that's Dexter Park now was a lake. There was a
dam across the south end of the park. It was sort of
where the little bridge is now. And it had been
dammed up, and it was... They enjoyed the lake, but
really it was not a real scenic type thing. It was
mosquito-infested. But... The first families to
build off the campus were on this street. And my
husband's family and five others formed the
Southside Development Company. And they
developed this whole area. I mean, they
developed, I suppose, what's called South Park
right in here where we live. It's not a very large
area now, but it was the first development off the
campus around this little Dexter Park.
What type of social services were there then, like
fire police, schools, telephone? Is it pretty
much like it is now, or has it changed a lot? In 1951,
there was only one school out at College Station.
It's in the local here on Jersey Street. The grade
school was there, the junior high and the high
school. They were in different buildings. The
school system was not very wealthy. There's not
much to tax in this area except just local
families, and it was a rather poor school district
as far as financing, but an excellent school
system in that it had such good teachers and could
draw from resources at the college. But the grade
school was housed in little wooden buildings,
which people jokingly called the chicken coops.
They weren't very attractive. They're still
there, but used just for storage and other things
now. But this was the one school out here. And at
that time, it was much smaller. It may have been a B
school or an A school. Now it's AAA. It was a very
small school. As a Girl Scout worker, I worked with
all the schools in the area. The College Station
school consolidated. It was a very outstanding
school. One of the best, the elementary school was
recognized as one of the top ten in the nation at
that time for its reading program and other areas.
It was far advanced, its reading techniques and
that sort of thing. The Bryan schools were very
good schools too, but as far as police and I think it
was very adequate in the fire, that sort of thing.
But, of course, it's had to grow with the community
because it's so much larger now. Awesome. Well, I
think that about concludes the interview. I want
to thank you very much for this. Well, thank you for
asking. I really enjoyed it. I did, too. Thank you
for asking.